FedEx
will discuss
How IP addresses are allocated
Particularly how
the allocation of blocks of addresses
worker will eventually get into how an IP address gets allocated for your own
individual computer
Say using a protocol
like DHCP
So
how do you get one of these large blocks of addresses that we've talked about say for an organization
Well
we've seen how in class
Classical addressing
There's an assignment of a prefix to a particular institution
like
Vanderbilt as we discussed addresses
then are assigned by those institutions to their notes inside of their network
but who assigns these prefixes
So
there's an organization that does this
So I can does this and it allocates large address box to Regional internet
Registries
but
there's some politics involved in this there
Then Regional internet
registries are ours
Such as Aaron
in the United States
this allocate address blocks within their given regions
You should be say allocated to isps
as well as large institutions
Both of which should be done for her payment
Then is PS
So say your service provider at your
for your home internet
These would allocate address box for their customers could be recursive in this typically is going to be a recurring
sort of
without additional charge beyond what you already paid for your internet service
but for example
sometimes if you wanted to have such a dedicated IP address
you might pay for that service to have that IP address assigned to your home
If you say ran a server that needed
that kind of a dedicated IP address
So how do we figure out who owns an address while their address Registries
This is a public record of how the addresses are allocated
This is how this is in part how
For example
if you browse to a website these days it'll automatically detect what country or what location you're in a potentially even what organization you're with the ISP should also update if they're giving addresses to customers
But these records of course there are often out of date
So there are a couple ways to figure out who owns that address so you can run a command like
who is there a variety of tools to run who has and you could look up who owns a particular IP address or block of IP addresses
And what organization is a sign that block
So you probably inferred and our discussion of ipv4 versus IPv6
Probably having 32-bit addresses isn't quite enough
So this is a lot of unique addresses
but it's not enough for how many devices are connected to the internet
So how many addresses could we
how many different computers are notes
When we represent with 32 bits
While to
to the 32 is a bit over four million
So we could have four billion unique addresses for devices connected to the internet
But as we saw
there are reserved special purpose
blocks
and some addresses are allocated in large blocks to organizations
perhaps that are using all of them
But now because we're connecting more and more things to the internet
many of
which fact
all of which are going to need IP addresses of some form
such as an internet of things
We do already have more than four billion devices connected to the internet
So a longer-term solution
which is in part will lead to IPv6, is that we now have a 128 bits for addresses
So that should be about 3.4 x 10 to the 38th devices
So hopefully this larger at address space will be sufficient for handling
The scalability growth of the number of devices connected to the internet
There are some other shorter-term solutions for continuing to use ipv4 because it is still widely used
As we discussed trying to switch the internet layer protocol have ipv4 the network layer protocol
That ipv4s is very difficult because it's the commonality between the link later and lower layer
Protocols
and the applique
10 layer protocols
So using private addresses
as one solution using network
address translation
which will discuss shortly is another solution
And partially using a dynamic assignment of addresses which enables unique private addresses
say hidden behind a router
If you have saved several computers at your home connected behind one router
so we're going to talk more next about how Network address translation would work and would help us address this limitation of only having 32-bit addresses